In this concept, I will explain you another complex data type called struct.
Struct is a user-defined type declared by using the keyword struct.
In this code example that you see on your screen,
we are creating a struct called CarType.
This struct CarType has four members: name,
model, owner, and price.
Like I mentioned, structs are just user-defined types.
Now, we can create variables of type CarType.
Also, structs cannot have members of its own type.
Structs can be contained in arrays and mapping.
So, that means you can definitely create an array that can hold struct types,
or you can also create a mapping that can hold struct values.
Now, structs are not a part of the ABI definition.
What that means is that the color of the contract when looking
at the ABI will not know if structs are defined in the contract.
External function calls, that means calls made from outside the EVM,
cannot send or receive struct types,
but calls made from within the EVM,
from one contract to another contract can send and receive struct types.
Now, let's look at sample contract that uses
struct so we can understand the concept of struct a little better.
So, now this code example that we see on the screen,
again, starts with the pragma line.
Then, we have contract.
The name of the contract is called strokes contract.
Now, in the very beginning,
I'm creating a struct called family.
Now, this has three members: lastName, houseNumber, and age.
So, bytes32 lastName.
I'll explain to you why I wanted to use
bytes32 because we're going to search on the struct
and we cannot search or work with strings, or compare strings.
So, that's the reason we're going to use bytes32.
Now, that's a very normal thing that you'll see
in contracts is using bytes32 when you're looking to compare strings.
We'll get to that in just a second.
So, we have three struct members here.
Then, we're creating an array.
So, we're creating an array of type family.
So, like I said, this is just a type.
Now, we have to create either a data type or of course,
in this case, we're creating an array.
Now, this array is going to store these structs.
The name of the array is called myFamily.
Now, what we're trying to do is we're trying to get names.
So, what we're trying to do is someone is going to pass this saying they want to look up
the struct or this array and see if this name exists in it.
The way we do that is we're going to get the name in bytes32.
Then, we're returning the complete value,
that is, as a part of the struct, so three members.
We're returning the lastName, houseNo, and age.
So, we're going to loop over this array that we just created, myFamily.
Now, if you receive a looping over the array myFamily.length,
whatever the number of people that we have in this array,
it's going to loop over that.
Then, we're comparing our input argument to the last name and seeing if it matches.
So, now, since I mentioned,
we cannot compare strings like this.
So, Solidity just does not support comparing strings in this way,
and that's the reason we are using bytes32 because we can definitely compare bytes32.
We're comparing our input argument to
the last name and looping all throughout the array, whenever that matches.
Now, returning the struct information or the array-specific index.
We're doing myFamily index i returning the lastName,
myFamily again, index i returning the houseNo,
myFamily index i returning the age.
So returning the information.
The second function that we have,
addName function, I wanted to show you.
Now, structs cannot be passed as arguments,
so we are passing all elements and attributes of struct as arguments.
So, you cannot just pass a complete struct as an argument.
That's the reason we add- if we need to add
a different name to our struct array that we just created,
we're going to have to pass it as separate argument.
So, we're getting again, bytes32 lastName, value, and age.
Then, we are creating a struct in memory inside.
We are storing, and the way you store using
only access struct members is using the.notation.
So, we just created an empty struct here in memory,
and now we're going to add all these different input parameters
to end the arguments that we received.
So, we're going to say newFamily.lastName is equal to our input or argument, lastName,
newFamily.houseNo and equal to value that we just received,
and newFamily.age equal to the value that we just received.
Now, we're going to push it.
So remember, we have an array here of this type.
Once we've created our struct here,
we're going to push this new information,
this new type into array.
The newFamily is array.
So, we're going to say myFamily.push(newFamily), and then that's it.
So, this is how structs work.
Again, I would definitely encourage you didn't copy this piece of
code from our GitHub page and play around with it,
so that you really get comfortable with how structs work in Solidity.